**Smiles2smell:**

Smiles2smell predicts the smell associated with the chemical compounds using deep learning-based ensemble model. It takes SMILES notation of chemical compound as input and generate the physiochemical properties and molecular fingerprints (PPMF) and 2d-image (IMG). Both (PPMF and IMG) representations are used to predict the probable associated smell using ensemble of CNN+IMG and DNN+PPMF models. 

Download files and follow the instructions.

**List of files provided:**
1.	Input file: smiles.smi 
2.	Models: modelA.h5 and modelB.h5
3.	Executables:
a.	Pre-processing.exe
b.	Smiles2smell.exe
4.	PaDEL Software
5.	List of smells: smells.csv
6.	Folder for images generated by RDKit: /images


**Requirements:**
1.	Anaconda 3.5.2
2.	python = 3.7.9
3.	PaDEL software
4.	RDKit = 2019.09.3
5.	numpy = 1.18.5
6.	scipy = 1.5.3
7.	pandas = 1.1.3
8.	pypiwin32 = 223
9.	scikit-learn = 0.23.2
10.	keras = 2.4.3
11.	tensorflow = 2.3.1
12.	pillow = 8.0.1


**Installation and Execution Instructions:**
1.	Install Anaconda

2.	Create new environment
>>conda create name_of_the_environment

3.	Install libraries mentioned in requirement section (To avoid dependency conflicts installed the mentioned library versions.)
>>pip install library_name == version

4.	Download and install smiles2smell.exe

5.	Save the SMILES notation of chemicals in smiles.smi file


6.	Activate the conda environment
>>conda activate name_of_environment 

7.	Change directory to the extracted smiles2smell folder
>>cd  /…/ …/smiles2smell

8.	Pre-processing:
  - >>pre-processing.exe
  - Enter path of the extracted smiles2smell folder
  - Working: Pre-processing.exe reads SMILES notation from smiles.smi file and generate:
      a) PPMF features using PaDEL software: features.csv
      b)Image of the chemical using RDKit in images folder: image_0.png

9.	Smell prediction:
  - >smiles2smell.exe
  - Enter path of the extracted smiles2smell folder
  - Working: smiles2smell.exe reads the image and PPMF data and implement CNN+IMG and DNN+PPMF model. Prediction from both the models are combined to give the smell associated with the SMILES provided by the user.


